Welcome back in this video we're going to look at a cute creator a little more.
And in order to do so I'm just going to get rid of all the elements that I had in here.
So I will just select them all on this site.
So it's inside of the central widget.
I have pretty much all of my stuff so if I select the central widget and then I select everything in
that central widget then I can just deleted by right clicking and pressing delete.
And as you can see now everything is gone.
My central widget which is of the classic queue widget doesn't contain anything anymore.
Now there is a hierarchy here and there.
It's pretty much just main window which is this whole window which contains a menu bar which contains
a status bar and other objects in here.
So there for class queue status bar.
This one has a class queue toolbar and so forth.
So if you wanted to do all of those you could develop those with those class names.
But what I want to talk to you about a little more are the properties here on the right bottom site.
So in order to do that I'm actually going to use a text label.
So I'm just going to drag it in here.
Make it a little bigger and if you look at it here on the right hand side the geometry changes each
time that I change the value.
But what I actually want to talk to you about are several of those elements that you can see here.
So there are plenty of properties and there are many as I you've seen so there is this text which you
can see here its text label so I can press here and change that to Hello World in here.
But I can also change it in here in the top but in the bottom right corner I can just change the value
to Hello World 23.
So as you can see there is a specific hierarchy here which we don't see as a hierarchy.
We have this q label which inherits from Q frame which inherits from Q widget which inherits from Q
object.
So this q object just has the object name.
So if we wanted to work with this object name so pretty much with this label here we could change its
ID so this is pretty much the ID of that label.
So for example if you have a button and you want to adjust the button text based on a click or based
on behavior in your code you would access its object name or the existing button via object name.
And that's why it's important to have a descriptive name here so this is just called label.
But we could call this one.
Hello world.
A label for example.
So that's the name of the object.
Then there is this queue widget which pretty much contains things like the geometry the minimum size
the maximum size.
You can change to font in here so if I feel like it using a different font I can do that any time.
So let's use Ibrahima as it can see the font has changed.
Then you can change to point size which pretty much is the font size.
So I'm going to make it a little bigger here.
Let's go with 18.
Maybe some like that we are can make it bold italic underlined So pretty much everything can be changed
in here.
So you have plenty of settings that you can change.
You can add a tooltip which we have done in the past so you can just add a tooltip when somebody hovers
over it however.
So let's say I added to to called hovered here then plenty of other properties so you can go through
all of them and check them out of course but you will need most of them you want only some of them.
For example changing the appearance of it and changing the minimum size.
For example if you don't want this to be smaller than a certain size So for example your label shouldn't
be smaller than say 50 pixels wide or something like that.
Then the geometry you can change at any time so here the x value here is pretty much how much distance
does it have.
To the left corner.
And this y values how much distance does it have to the top.
Which is pretty much starting here.
So let's say I changed a value to 100 pixels you can see that my hello world is moving.
Then we have the Q frame which contains some properties and finally the Q label.
So here we are talking about the label itself.
So the properties that we had in the Q widget.
They are all the same for all widgets.
Pretty much so everything there is a widget does have those properties but only the Q label has the
label properties so we have some that are specific for this label.
Of course other objects from here other widgets could contain similar elements like the ones that you
can see here.
This set of properties is pretty much set for the CULE label.
And yeah you can change some things like a margin.
So let's add a margin.
Here you can see no.
I have a margin of 200 So that's a lot too a little too much.
So there's no nothing in there anymore.
You can add a word wrap so I can see now repping it to the next line in order to fit the text.
That's what this word rep does and so forth.
OK.
So again you can of course check out everything in here but what I want to show you is actually how
this is structured so let's go back to PI charm and I'm just going to show you how it is structure so
that can create a new life and file I'm just going to call it test because I just want to show you some
pseudo code which is not really existing in python but it exists in C++ because as you know qued is
written in C++.
So Howard pretty much works as we have this class called queue object which for just was just going
to pass then we have this class called queue widget which inherits from queue object and here I'm going
to pass as well.
Then we have this class called queue frame which inherits from Q widget and I'm going to pass here as
well.
And finally we have this class queue label which inherits from Q frame.
So you see that's how the relationship is.
So object then widget frame label.
And if we're if we're not talking about a label if we're talking about a different object so a different
widget or different.
For example here button or something.
Let's have a look at the button real quick.
So let me drag in a button then we can see the hierarchy here as well so queue object queue widget and
that inherits or then you have to abstract button which inherits from key widget and you have q push
button which then again inherits from Q abstract button.
So there is a class called you abstract button which contains pretty much the code for buttons in general.
But then there is the specific button which is called Push button and you can see that if you check
out the tool button here as well you can see that the tool button is also inheriting from Q abstract
button and the same goes for let's say the radio button as you can see here the radio button is an abstract
button.
So the radio button doesn't have an additional cue radio button kind of thing it's just a cue abstract
OK.
So that's just what I wanted to show you here real quick.
Let's go back to our code and let's create some pseudo code in here because what you see here is how
they are pretty much inheriting So what the structure is.
But that is not done in Python so that you won't find this code in Python anywhere in qued it's there
in C++.
OK.
So instead of passing I'm just going to add a little instructor constructor here which is just going
in it self.
And here let's say a change.
You can change the name or you can set the name to something like label.
Then we have this q widget which also has a constructor.
And first of all it calls the constructor of its parent.
So it's just going to use the input from the parent then it's going to set the geometry south'ard geometry.
And this contains a list.
And for now she's going to be an empty list.
Then you have the phone that you can set here and let's say you have the font of arrival and I'm going
to leave the cue frame out because there's not that much interesting stuff for us but the label label
also.
First of all calls the constructor of the parent so super on the score in it then self that text could
said something like the text and say something like Hello world.
All right.
So again this is just pseudo code but that's how you could pretty much imagine what's going on in our
qued creator.
So here we check out our label again.
You see the cue object has an object name.
And now we changed it from label to have the word label then it has a Q widget which has this geometry
where you can see OK this is containing a list in here and so forth.
All right.
So I hope this gave you a little better understanding of what's going on and what is actually happening
in the background here.
And as I said Guruji or qued is written in C++ so you won't find this in python but it's pretty much
the same principle that applies there.
And what we what you should do now what you can do is play around create your own user interface and
then just build it executed and test how it looks like.